README.md, before:

![Guess the Flag! header](documentation/guess_the_flag_header.png)

---

# *Guess the Flag!*

This quiz is an interactive way for visitors to learn about the different countries of the world, by identifying their flags.
For those who are interested in global affairs or geography, it is a great learning aide, as the flags are presented in random order.  It gives immediate feedback based on the visitors' answers.  It suggests a challenge to them to improve their score, which is recorded as correct and incorrect.

The site can be accessed by this [link](https://jarlathmacs.github.io/guess-the-flag)

![Responsive Mockup](documentation/responsive_mockup.png)

## Features 

### Existing Features

- __Guess the Flag! Header__

  - This appears at the top of all pages.  The logo is to the left side, which is the United Nations logo.  
  - The heading is to the right of the logo.

![Header](documentation/guess_the_flag_header.png)

- __Landing page__

  - Here the visitors are introduced to the quiz.  It is described in short, as well as the purpose presented.  The challenge to achieve a best score motivates the visitors to go through the quiz multiple times.
  
![Landing](documentation/guess_the_flag_intro_text.png)

- __Start button__

  - They are presented with a Start button in order to initiate the first quiz round. 

![Start button](documentation/guess_the_flag_start_button.png)

- __Presentation of the flag challenges__

  - This is where the flags are presented in random order.
  - In addition, visitors are presented with 3 possible answers to choose from.

![Flag with 3 answer choices](documentation/guess_the_flag_question.png)

  - As the cursor is moved over any 1 of the 3 choices, the background changes from a light (UN) blue to black, and the text from black to white.
  
![3 answer choices](documentation/guess_the_flag_question_hover.png)

- __Answers__

  - As soon as the visitor clicks on 1 of the 3 choices, immediate feedback is given in the form of the background of the buttons changing to green or red, depending on the correct answer.  

![Answers](documentation/guess_the_flag_answer.png)

  - In addition to the backgrounds of the answer choice buttons changing to green or red, the Next button also appears below them.  This allows the visitor to advance to the next flag in the quiz round.

![Next button](documentation/guess_the_flag_next_button.png)

- __Restart button__

  - Once the visitor has progressed through the total number of flags in the quiz round, they are presented with a Restart button in place of the Next or Start buttons.

![Restart button](documentation/guess_the_flag_restart_button.png)

- __Counters section__

  - Here the visitor can watch in real time the score tally accumulate with both correct and incorrect answers counted.  In addition, the total number of questions answered is also kept a running tally of.  The correct score is written in green, and the incorrect in red. 

![Counters section](documentation/guess_the_flag_counters.png)

### Possible future features

- Randomisation of the 2 possible incorrect answer choices presented along with the correct answer choice.  This would create a higher level of difficulty for the visitors.

## Testing 

- The website was tested and works correctly on the following browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Safari.
- Functionality, responsiveness, and appearance were all good.
- The website was checked by using devtools to make sure it looks good on all screen sizes.
- Manual testing showed all features work as intended.
- The logic of the counters was tested and passed to make sure the scores and tallies are accurate.

### Validator Testing 

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator.
- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator.
- Lighthouse
  - Accessibility of color palette used, and alt attributes, etc. was confirmed.

![Lighthouse](media/lighthouse.png)

### Unfixed Bugs

No unfixed bugs.

## Deployment

- The site was deployed to GitHub pages.  The steps for deployment are as follows: 
  - In the GitHub repository, click on the Settings tab.  On the left menu, click on the pages option.
  - Under the build and deployment, under branch, select main and root options.  Click the save button. 

The live link can be found here - (https://jarlathmacs.github.io/portfolio-project-1/index.html)

## Credits 

### Content 

- The HTML code to make the social media links in the footer was taken from the Love Running project.
- The CSS code in the media query for >=1200px for the reasons to own a dog section, is taken from the Love Running project.
- The icons in the footer and throughout the website were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com).
- The text used in the Why get a dog section was taken from (https://newsnetwork.mayoclinic.org/discussion/mayo-clinic-q-and-a-how-owning-pets-can-lead-to-a-healthier-lifestyle)
- The text used in the 5 Reasons to adopt section was taken from (https://www.aspca.org/news/10-reasons-adopt-shelter-dog)

### Media

- The favicon and logo were created using the website [Brandmark](https://brandmark.io)
- The hero image was taken from (https://www.pugsandkisses.com/listing/898987938/pug-wall-art-hats-and-ties-pug-art-print)
- The images used for the Meet our Pugs page were taken from [Austin Pug Rescue](https://austinpugrescue.com)
- The image for the circle-cover-bg element and the Contact us page were taken from (https://www.instagram.com/ring0thepug)
- The image in the 5 Reasons to adopt was taken from (https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&url=https%3A%2F%2Fespace-trail-du-couserans.com%2F%3Fs%3Dpugs-life-movie-poster-%25E2%2580%2593-your-art-by-you-bb-Ayd6LWfl&psig=AOvVaw2trlyuYa4xoO13IRaztsVm&ust=1721712418610000&source=images&cd=vfe&opi=89978449&ved=0CBEQjRxqGAoTCIiC5ez0uYcDFQAAAAAdAAAAABC1EQ)

Commit message:

Add validation data, links, and images to the readme file

README.md, after:

![Guess the Flag! header](documentation/guess_the_flag_header.png)

---

# *Guess the Flag!*

This quiz is an interactive way for visitors to learn about the different countries of the world, by identifying their flags.
For those who are interested in global affairs or geography, it is a great learning aide, as the flags are presented in random order.  It gives immediate feedback based on the visitors' answers.  It suggests a challenge to them to improve their score, which is recorded as correct and incorrect.

The site can be accessed by this [link](https://jarlathmacs.github.io/guess-the-flag)

![Responsive Mockup](documentation/responsive_mockup.png)

## Features 

### Existing Features

- __Guess the Flag! Header__

  - This appears at the top of all pages.  The logo is to the left side, which is the United Nations logo.  
  - The heading is to the right of the logo.

![Header](documentation/guess_the_flag_header.png)

- __Landing page__

  - Here the visitors are introduced to the quiz.  It is described in short, as well as the purpose presented.  The challenge to achieve a best score motivates the visitors to go through the quiz multiple times.
  
![Landing](documentation/guess_the_flag_intro_text.png)

- __Start button__

  - They are presented with a Start button in order to initiate the first quiz round. 

![Start button](documentation/guess_the_flag_start_button.png)

- __Presentation of the flag challenges__

  - This is where the flags are presented in random order.
  - In addition, visitors are presented with 3 possible answers to choose from.

![Flag with 3 answer choices](documentation/guess_the_flag_question.png)

  - As the cursor is moved over any 1 of the 3 choices, the background changes from a light (UN) blue to black, and the text from black to white.
  
![3 answer choices](documentation/guess_the_flag_question_hover.png)

- __Answers__

  - As soon as the visitor clicks on 1 of the 3 choices, immediate feedback is given in the form of the background of the buttons changing to green or red, depending on the correct answer.  

![Answers](documentation/guess_the_flag_answer.png)

  - In addition to the backgrounds of the answer choice buttons changing to green or red, the Next button also appears below them.  This allows the visitor to advance to the next flag in the quiz round.

![Next button](documentation/guess_the_flag_next_button.png)

- __Restart button__

  - Once the visitor has progressed through the total number of flags in the quiz round, they are presented with a Restart button in place of the Next or Start buttons.

![Restart button](documentation/guess_the_flag_restart_button.png)

- __Counters section__

  - Here the visitor can watch in real time the score tally accumulate with both correct and incorrect answers counted.  In addition, the total number of questions answered is also kept a running tally of.  The correct score is written in green, and the incorrect in red. 

![Counters section](documentation/guess_the_flag_counters.png)

### Possible future features

- Randomisation of the 2 possible incorrect answer choices presented along with the correct answer choice.  This would create a higher level of difficulty for the visitors.

## Testing 

- The website was tested and works correctly on the following browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Safari.
- Functionality, responsiveness, and appearance were all good.
- The website was checked by using devtools to make sure it looks good on all screen sizes.
- Manual testing showed all features work as intended.
- The logic of the counters was tested and passed to make sure the scores and tallies are accurate.

### Validator Testing 

- HTML
  - No errors or warnings were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fjarlathmacs.github.io%2Fguess-the-flag%2F)

![HTML Validator](documentation/guess_the_flag_w3c_html.png)

- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fjarlathmacs.github.io%2Fguess-the-flag%2F&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en)

![CSS Validator](documentation/guess_the_flag_w3c_css.png)

- JavaScript
  - No errors or warnings were found when passing through the official [Jshint validator](https://jshint.com/)
    - The following metrics were returned: 
    - There are 16 functions in this file.
    - Function with the largest signature takes 2 arguments, while the median is 0.
    - Largest function has 14 statements in it, while the median is 2.
    - The most complex function has a cyclomatic complexity value of 4 while the median is 1.

![JS Validator](documentation/guess_the_flag_jshint.png)

- Lighthouse
  - Accessibility of color palette used, and alt attributes, etc. was confirmed.

![Lighthouse](media/lighthouse.png)

### Unfixed Bugs

No unfixed bugs.

## Deployment

- The site was deployed to GitHub pages.  The steps for deployment are as follows: 
  - In the GitHub repository, click on the Settings tab.  On the left menu, click on the pages option.
  - Under the build and deployment, under branch, select main and root options.  Click the save button. 

The live link can be found here - (https://jarlathmacs.github.io/portfolio-project-1/index.html)

## Credits 

### Content 

- The HTML code to make the social media links in the footer was taken from the Love Running project.
- The CSS code in the media query for >=1200px for the reasons to own a dog section, is taken from the Love Running project.
- The icons in the footer and throughout the website were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com).
- The text used in the Why get a dog section was taken from (https://newsnetwork.mayoclinic.org/discussion/mayo-clinic-q-and-a-how-owning-pets-can-lead-to-a-healthier-lifestyle)
- The text used in the 5 Reasons to adopt section was taken from (https://www.aspca.org/news/10-reasons-adopt-shelter-dog)

### Media

- The favicon and logo were created using the website [Brandmark](https://brandmark.io)
- The hero image was taken from (https://www.pugsandkisses.com/listing/898987938/pug-wall-art-hats-and-ties-pug-art-print)
- The images used for the Meet our Pugs page were taken from [Austin Pug Rescue](https://austinpugrescue.com)
- The image for the circle-cover-bg element and the Contact us page were taken from (https://www.instagram.com/ring0thepug)
- The image in the 5 Reasons to adopt was taken from (https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&url=https%3A%2F%2Fespace-trail-du-couserans.com%2F%3Fs%3Dpugs-life-movie-poster-%25E2%2580%2593-your-art-by-you-bb-Ayd6LWfl&psig=AOvVaw2trlyuYa4xoO13IRaztsVm&ust=1721712418610000&source=images&cd=vfe&opi=89978449&ved=0CBEQjRxqGAoTCIiC5ez0uYcDFQAAAAAdAAAAABC1EQ)
